Add guidance to avoid all white speakers (#69)
rladies/rladiesguide: content/organization/events/speakers/index.en.md

* Remember the [rules about Prioritization of Underrepresented/Minority Genders](/about/mission/#r-ladies-rules--guidelines).

> * In line with R-Ladies’ Mission Statement and with our [Black Live Matter Statement](https://blog.rladies.org/post/2020-06-06-blm/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In line with R-Ladies’ Mission Statement and with our [Black Lives Matter Statement](https://blog.rladies.org/post/2020-06-06-blm/) 
```

> it is our obligation to make efforts to ensure the participation and representation in our events of generally excluded groups, taking into account the intersectionality of gender, race, language and geography, for this reazons we request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to achieve participation and representation in our events of generally excluded groups, taking into account the intersectionality of gender, race, language and geography; for these reasons we request:
```

>   - Not host all the events with white speakers in the same chapter during the year.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In chapter events, invite speakers of diverse race, language and geography (i.e., avoid a one year period with all white speakers at the chapter events).
```

>   - Avoid all white panels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For panel discussions of 3 or more panelists, invite speakers of diverse race, language and geography (i.e., avoid all white panels).
```

### How to find speakers? 

> - You can use the [R-Ladies Directory](https://rladies.org/directory/) to search and find non white, native anglophone, high income level countries speakers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can use the [R-Ladies Directory](https://rladies.org/directory/) to identify potential speakers that are not: white, native anglophone, or from high income level countries.
```

- You can reach other communities to request for speakers information (see lists below).
- You can reach other R-Ladies in the R-Ladies Community Slack.
- You can use others directories to look for speakers (see list below). 

> 

Author: - For online events, we encourage local chapters to reach out beyond their local community to invite R-Ladies from different parts of the world as speakers.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- For online events, we encourage local chapters to reach out beyond their local community to invite R-Ladies from different parts of the world as speakers.
```

> - You can reach other communities to request for speakers information (see lists below).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can reach out to other communities to request for speakers information (see lists below).
```

Furthermore should we add something (as discussed elsewhere) about not putting too much work on minorities' plates?

Reviewer 2: E.g. a sentence about first looking whether they have a directory.

Reviewer 3: I agree, looking for a directory first would be good and I would also drop the word "request" (because, to me, that sounds a bit like an entitlement to be given suggestions).

```suggestion
- You can check similar directories and reach out to other communities (see lists below).
```

> - You can reach other R-Ladies in the R-Ladies Community Slack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can reach out to other R-Ladies in the R-Ladies Community Slack.
```

> - You can use others directories to look for speakers (see list below). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You can follow other communities on social media to get to know their members and potential speakers.
```

re removal: that would already be covered by line 38 and in that form, checking the directories would be listed higher up

re follow other communities: is this either too obvious or too vague?

Author: Obvious: it doesn't make any damage to explicitly say this.

> ### Other communities to reach

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Other communities to reach out to
```

* [Minorities in R](https://mircommunity.com/)

* [Black Girls Code](https://www.blackgirlscode.com/)

* [Black in Data](https://www.blackindata.co.uk/)

* [Black in Data Week](https://blkindata.github.io/)

* [Coding Black Female](https://codingblackfemales.com/)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 
 * [Black in AI](https://blackinai.github.io/#/)
```

### Other womens speakers directories

* [500 Scientific Women](https://500womenscientists.org/request-a-scientist)

* [Diversifica](https://diversifyeeb.com)

* [Women in geospatial](https://www.womeningeospatial.org/join/speakers-database)

* [Find your speakers](https://speakerinnen.org/)

* [Survey of scientists from Women in Bioinformatics and Data Science LatAm](https://t.co/nI8rHED8ry?amp=1) 

> * * [Directory of technology speakers](https://github.com/lasdesistemas/speakers-tecnologia) from [Las de Sistemas - LatAm](https://twitter.com/lasdesistemas/status/1273374539888672774?s=20): 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Directory of technology speakers](https://github.com/lasdesistemas/speakers-tecnologia) from [Las de Sistemas - LatAm](https://twitter.com/lasdesistemas/status/1273374539888672774?s=20): 
```

> We need to do for this minorities group inside our community, the same we request other communities and spaces do for womens.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We need to do for the minority groups inside our community the same that we request other communities and spaces do for women and gender minorities.  
```

Reviewer 3: I would move this sentence up, probably to line 35 to end that last bullet point with the two sub-bullets. It's an important sentence and I think it's easily overlooked in its current place.

* Remember the [rules about Prioritization of Underrepresented/Minority Genders](/about/mission/#r-ladies-rules--guidelines).

* In line with R-Ladies’ Mission Statement and with our [Black Lives Matter Statement](https://blog.rladies.org/post/2020-06-06-blm/) 
to achieve participation and representation in our events of generally excluded groups, taking into account the intersectionality of gender, race, language and geography; for these reasons we request:

  - In chapter events, invite speakers of diverse race, language and geography (i.e., avoid a one year period with all white speakers at the chapter events).
  - For panel discussions of 3 or more panelists, invite speakers of diverse race, language and geography (i.e., avoid all white panels).
We need to do for the minority groups inside our community the same that we request other communities and spaces do for women and gender minorities.  
### How to find speakers? 

> - You can use the [R-Ladies Directory](https://rladies.org/directory/) to identify potential speakers that are not: white, native anglophone, or from high income level countries.

Reviewer 4: This has the potential to accidentally exclude immigrants to high income level countries, people of colour who are citizens of high income level countries, and people whose race isn't obvious from their directory profiles (some speakers have black and white photos)

Reviewer 3: I agree. I think @Maelle's rephrasing captures the reminder that directories are imprefect tools and their limitations should be kept in mind. 
https://github.com/rladies/rladiesguide/pull/71

Reviewer 2: I merged the rephrasing but it's still open to discussion!

> - You can reach out to other communities to request for speakers information (see lists below).

Author: ```suggestion
- You can check similar directories and reach out to other communities (see lists below).
```

Author: This was suggested by Hannah but I committed the change by Maëlle instead of this one that was the one we want to.

- For online events, we encourage local chapters to reach out beyond their local community to invite R-Ladies from different parts of the world as speakers.
### Other communities to reach out to

* [Minorities in R](https://mircommunity.com/)

* [Black Girls Code](https://www.blackgirlscode.com/)

* [Black in Data](https://www.blackindata.co.uk/)

* [Black in Data Week](https://blkindata.github.io/)

* [Coding Black Female](https://codingblackfemales.com/)
 
   * [Black in AI](https://blackinai.github.io/#/)
  
### Other womens speakers directories

* [500 Scientific Women](https://500womenscientists.org/request-a-scientist)

* [Diversifica](https://diversifyeeb.com)

* [Women in geospatial](https://www.womeningeospatial.org/join/speakers-database)

* [Find your speakers](https://speakerinnen.org/)

* [Survey of scientists from Women in Bioinformatics and Data Science LatAm](https://t.co/nI8rHED8ry?amp=1) 

* [Directory of technology speakers](https://github.com/lasdesistemas/speakers-tecnologia) from [Las de Sistemas - LatAm](https://twitter.com/lasdesistemas/status/1273374539888672774?s=20): 

>  

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/ladyleet/women-tech-speakers-organizers
The above could be a great addition, it was curated a couple of years back and covers speakers/mentors/organizers from geographic regions around the globe.

Reviewer 2: Thank you! However if it's no longer curated, there might be a lot of out-of-date information?

Reviewer 5: agreed, makes sense

Reviewer 2: Thanks again for the suggestion though! :pray:

* Remember the [rules about Prioritization of Underrepresented/Minority Genders](/about/mission/#r-ladies-rules--guidelines).

* In line with R-Ladies’ Mission Statement and with our [Black Lives Matter Statement](https://blog.rladies.org/post/2020-06-06-blm/) 
to achieve participation and representation in our events of generally excluded groups, taking into account the intersectionality of gender, race, language and geography; for these reasons we request:

  - In chapter events, invite speakers of diverse race, language and geography (i.e., avoid a one year period with all white speakers at the chapter events).
  - For panel discussions of 3 or more panelists, invite speakers of diverse race, language and geography (i.e., avoid all white panels).

> 

Author: ```suggestion
We need to do for the minority groups inside our community the same that we request other communities and spaces do for women and gender minorities.  
```

- For online events, we encourage local chapters to reach out beyond their local community to invite R-Ladies from different parts of the world as speakers.
### Other communities to reach out to

* [Minorities in R](https://mircommunity.com/)

* [Black Girls Code](https://www.blackgirlscode.com/)

* [Black in Data](https://www.blackindata.co.uk/)

* [Black in Data Week](https://blkindata.github.io/)

* [Coding Black Female](https://codingblackfemales.com/)
 
   * [Black in AI](https://blackinai.github.io/#/)
  
### Other womens speakers directories

* [500 Scientific Women](https://500womenscientists.org/request-a-scientist)

* [Diversifica](https://diversifyeeb.com)

* [Women in geospatial](https://www.womeningeospatial.org/join/speakers-database)

* [Find your speakers](https://speakerinnen.org/)

* [Survey of scientists from Women in Bioinformatics and Data Science LatAm](https://t.co/nI8rHED8ry?amp=1) 

* [Directory of technology speakers](https://github.com/lasdesistemas/speakers-tecnologia) from [Las de Sistemas - LatAm](https://twitter.com/lasdesistemas/status/1273374539888672774?s=20): 
 

> We need to do for the minority groups inside our community the same that we request other communities and spaces do for women and gender minorities.  

Author: ```suggestion

```
